Use this project rubric to understand and assess the project criteria.

Database Setup and Knowledge Base Preparation
Criteria	Submission Requirements
Set up the database infrastructure

Successfully run the database management notebook to initialize the databases
Database contains the required tables (EnergyUsage, SolarGeneration)
Set up the knowledge base infrastructure

Successfully set up vector DB and populate the knowledge base with comprehensive energy-saving articles.
Tools
Criteria	Submission Requirements
External data

You have many tools already available to you in tools.py , your task is defining following two tools:

get_weather_forecast
get_electricity_prices
You can mock the data either by dinamically creating weights and multiplying by base values inside the tool or by filling a inserting into the database in advance.

Optionally you can use a real external API, but try to find free resources.

Internal tips

The third tool you have to define is the search_energy_tips tool using a vector database like chroma:

Initialize vector store if it doesn't exist
Load and Split documents if vector store doesn't exist
Else load existing vector store
Search for relevant documents
Return a results dict
Agent Architecture with LangGraph
Criteria	Submission Requirements
Agent definition

Inside agent.py, you should define

LLM
Graph (Schema, Nodes and Edges)
Make sure your Agent comply with the contract:

Agent class constructor accepting at least instructions and model
invoke method accepting at least question and context
Agent Instructions

Inside 03_run_and_evaluate.ipynb , you should craft ECOHOME_SYSTEM_PROMPT in order to instruct it to perform correctly and pass it to:

ecohome_agent = Agent(
    instructions=ECOHOME_SYSTEM_PROMPT,
)
Make sure your prompt includes:

Who the agent is and its role
What it should do and the steps
Key capabilities
Instructions for the recommendations piece
Example questions
Integration and Testing
Criteria	Submission Requirements
Test cases

Inside 03_run_and_evaluate.ipynb , define comprehensive test cases for the Energy Advisor. Create at least 10 test cases covering different scenarios. Examples:

EV charging optimization
Thermostat settings
Appliance scheduling
Solar power maximization
Cost savings calculations
Demonstrate end-to-end energy optimization workflow with proper evaluation

Demonstrate a complete end-to-end workflow for processing energy optimization requests.
System can process energy optimization questions from initial query to final recommendation
Agent response includes data retrieval, analysis, tool usage, and recommendation generation
Demonstrates the complete flow with sample energy optimization scenarios
System logs agent decisions and tool usage for transparency in test_results variable
Evaluation and Performance
Criteria	Submission Requirements
Implement evaluation of the agent response

Based on question, final response and expected response, implement metrics inside evaluate_response() function to capture at least:

ACCURACY
RELEVANCE
COMPLETENESS
USEFULNESS
It should also provide comprehensive feedbacks

Implement evaluation of tool usage

Based on messages_list and expected_tools, implement metrics inside evaluate_tool_usage() function to capture at least:

Tool Appropriateness: Were the right tools selected for the task?
Tool Completeness: Were all necessary tools used?
It should also provide comprehensive feedbacks.

Evaluation Report

Based on the execution and metrics, generate a comprehensive evaluation report inside generate_evaluation_report() function

Calculate overall scores and metrics
Identify strengths and weaknesses
Provide recommendations for improvement
The report must have a proper structure and be displayed using another function.

Suggestions to Make Your Project Stand Out
Visualization and Reporting: Add data visualization capabilities to show energy usage patterns, savings projections, and optimization recommendations in charts and graphs.

User Personalization: Add user preference learning and personalized optimization strategies based on individual usage patterns and preferences.

Integration with External APIs: Connect with real weather APIs, electricity pricing APIs, and smart home device APIs for live data integration.

Advanced RAG Techniques: Implement more sophisticated RAG techniques like hybrid search, re-ranking, or multi-step reasoning for better knowledge retrieval.
Machine Learning Integration: Add machine learning models to predict energy usage patterns and optimize recommendations based on historical data and user behavior.